
                  　　⊆줄끝랙뿐 
                  good morning, my name is jack, it is really a great honor to 
                  have this opportunity for a interview, i would like to answer 
                  whatever you may raise, and i hope i can make a good 
                  performance today, eventually enroll in this prestigious 
                  university in september. now i will introduce myself briefly,i 
                  am 21 years old,born in heilongjiang province ,northeast of 
                  china,and i am curruently a senior student at beijing XX 
                  uni.my major is packaging engineering.and i will receive my 
                  bachelor degree after my graduation in june.in the past 4 
                  years,i spend most of my time on study,i have passed CET4/6 
                  with a ease. and i have acquired basic knowledge of packaging 
                  and publishing both in theory and in practice. besides, i have 
                  attend 
                  several packaging exhibition hold in Beijing, this is our 
                  advantage study here, i have taken a tour to some big factory 
                  and company. through these i have a deeply understanding of 
                  domestic packaging industry. compared to developed countries 
                  such as us, unfortunately, although we have made extraordinary 
                  progress since 1978,our packaging industry are still 
                  underdeveloped, mess, unstable, the situation of employees in 
                  this field are awkard. but i have full confidence in a bright 
                  future if only our economy can keep the growth pace still. i 
                  guess you maybe interested in the reason itch to law, and what 
                  is my plan during graduate study life, i would like to tell 
                  you that pursue law is one of my lifelong goal,i like my major 
                  packaging and i won"t give up,if i can pursue my master degree 
                  here i will combine law with my former education. i will work 
                  hard in thesefields ,patent ,trademark, copyright, on the base 
                  of my years study in department of p&p, my character? i cannot 
                  describe it well, but i know i am optimistic and confident. 
                  sometimes i prefer to stay alone, reading, listening to music, 
                  but i am not lonely, i like to chat with my classmates, almost 
                  talk everything ,my favorite pastime is valleyball,playing 
                  cards or surf online. through college life,i learn how to 
                  balance between study and entertainment. by the way, i was a 
                  actor of our amazing drama club. i had a few glorious memory 
                  on stage. that is my pride.